Hello, everyone. Ines, Gina, Richard, and Calvin. Welcome back to the show, all of you.
It's great to have you all here.
Yay! Yay, hi.
Yeah, really, really good to have you all here. It's been fun to have you all on separately
for different shows. Although, Gina, you've definitely been on a few panel shows before
recently on, I think the last movie was our Mastodon one, right? We talked about that.
Yeah.
That was a
lot of fun.
Today, we're going to talk about developer trends in a general sense.
And I invited you all because I, like all of you,
really appreciate having you here.
And thanks for taking the time to be here.
But you all also kind of work in little bits of different spaces
of technology and interests and so on.
So I think we'll get a really nice, diverse perspective
of experiences and so on.
I think the AI section is going to be especially interesting, as we'll see.
Where are we going with that?
That's always interesting.
So what we're going to do is we're going to use the 2024 Stack Overflow developer survey results.
It's a little bit old, but it's less than a year old.
I think it's close enough to use as a skeleton to kind of make that conversation happen.
So it's going to be a ton of fun to just have a wide-ranging exploration of how people are learning technology, using technology.
which ones are you using, so on. Before that, though, let's just do a quick round of introductions,
and we'll go around the Brady Bunch squares in order, I suppose. So, Ines, you're on top left.
Welcome. Great to see you.
Yeah, nice to be back. Yeah, I'm Ines. I'm the co-founder of Explosion.
We're probably mostly, well, most well known for spaCy, which is an open source library
for natural language processing in Python.
So everything to do with text, AI,
I do a lot in the open source space
and also helping developers build their own AI models
in-house, taking back control, that sort of stuff.
So yeah, very curious.
Like it was quite hard not to look at the results beforehand,
but I did it.
Thank you.
Yeah, and we recently talked about open source
and LLMs and AI and stuff.
And we'll open source
or the big cloud companies dominate that.
That was a lot of fun to talk about.
Yeah, the AI revolution won't be monopolized.
Yes, exactly.
That
was great.
Gina, hello, welcome.
Hi, yeah, my name is Gina.
I'm also known as Fuzel
and my claim to fame is probably Octoprint,
which is the snappy web interface
for your 3D printer,
which is actually written in Python,
which in turn is probably why I am here.
yeah and I'm also
happen to be a full time maintainer working
on that project and have been
doing that now for well over 12
years so yeah
it's a weird life but it works somehow
it's got an
amazing life I mean I'm sure a lot of people
are seeing that as the dream right you created
an open source project and it's successful
enough that you can do that full
time that's
the
dream
the people who are now listening to this
instead of watching that, will not see it when I point to my head, though,
and show all the gray hair that is up on there.
That wasn't there when I started this.
So just pointing that out.
There are
downsides to this film, certainly.
Just correlation, not necessarily the same, right?
It's got things up,
I'm sure.
Yeah,
I know where that goes.
Hey,
Richard,
good to see you.
Good to see you, too, friend.
Richard Campbell, I make the podcast.NET Rocks, Run Eyes Radio,
and now part of Windows Weekly as well.
I'm supposed to be a half-ready, you know,.NET person,
but as GitHub loves to remind me,
write entirely too much Python.
And
YAML.
Why do I write so much YAML?
I don't know.
Anyway.
What kind of life choices have
you made?
I don't.
You know what?
I munge a lot of data these days.
I don't know if
you know this,
but Python's pretty good at that.
Yeah.
You know, my Jupyter Notebooks
open most of the time
because there's
always some chunk of data I need to rip through.
There's some surprisingly good tools.
I was just talking with Reuben Lerner about Panda stuff.
What you can do in a couple lines of code is ridiculous.
MapReduce used to be
this huge task
where I harnessed multiple machines
to try and actually crush a large amount of data
in a reasonable length of time.
A contemporary PC is really
good
at it.
Stuff has changed.
It's only getting easier.
Use the tools du jour.
and you'll find you'll get good results in less time.
Yeah, absolutely.
Yeah, you have a bunch of great podcasts.
People, those sounds interesting too.
And whenever I
get to talk to you,
it's usually one of the geek outs, right?
Like that's where you end up.
Yeah, yeah, we've done some great geek outs,
some life in the solar system and energy talks and so
on.
The nuclear power topic these days has been really huge
because everybody's talking about it
and it turns out I did a bunch of stuff on that back when it was cool
and
so people keep
asking me to do more.
Yeah, that's very, very neat.
Calvin, hello, hello.
Good to see you.
Good to see you too, Michael.
I'm Calvin Hendryx-Parker.
I'm CTO and co-founder of Six Feet Up,
where we are a Python and AI for good organization.
My lifelong Pythonista,
I chose Python back in the year 2000
and decided I never wanted to look back.
And so I made a company around
building cool Python stuff for other folks.
So I guess that's kind of my claim to fame.
This year will be my 21st PyCon.
So my PyCon attendance can now drink.
oh and boy let me tell you if you ever hung out with calvin at pycon
no
i'm just we well i would just say we always have the best parties together and some of the
highlights are all the get togethers that we do that's what i'm getting at here
yeah getting the
people together that's what's important yeah you should
all come to europe um hycon de is uh later
this month. I'm very excited. It's going to
be
really cooler than ever.
Yeah, yeah.
But I
think the PyCon
and PyCon Italy
is also very good. PyData, Amsterdam.
I don't want to single out
too many individual conferences, but you should
come to Germany.
Yeah, that's awesome.
Sounds
like events
you need to bring your stunt liver
to, though.
Yeah.
Calvin, I definitely think
you definitely have been hosting
some of the great parties, the after parties and stuff at PyCon.
I love the community.
That's probably why I'm here is because I'm definitely a community first type person.
Yeah, beautiful.
All right, well, with that, let's just go ahead and jump right in to the topics here.
So like I said, what we're going to do is we're going to go through the Stack Overflow
survey and just kind of use it as something to riff off of.
So the first portion of Stack Overflow, of course, I'll put the link in the show notes.
You can check it out and follow along.
It had 65,000 people participate.
That's a lot of people.
I don't feel like Stack Overflow almost could have gotten more, but that's still statistically pretty significant.
And Stack Overflow, I think it's pretty broad across all the technologies these days.
So I think Python is still the number one language on Stack Overflow.
If we were to check
out Stack Overflow.
Yeah, Stack Overflow trends.
If we look at...
I mean, some might argue that's because Python is the number one language for developers in general.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well, I'm just saying that I think the results will be pretty significant,
include a significant amount of Python feedback,
not just overall, for better and worse.
Yeah, so right now, if you look at it,
we've got Python at the number one,
and we've got JS as number two.
But boy, oh boy, there's a really precipitous drop in 2023,
and we'll come back to that.
That's going to be super interesting.
But that's section three of our conversation right there.
So the first thing that comes up here is education.
How much education have you had as a person who works here?
And then I think maybe it's probably most relevant to focus in on the professional developers.
They break out all respondents versus students versus professionals and so on.
So let's maybe let's do a quick around here.
How much programming did you all learn in school versus how much did you teach yourself?
None.
Okay.
I didn't
go into
computer science.
What did you study?
Communication science, media science, and linguistics.
Because when
I was
trying to decide what to do for university,
it was weird because I didn't really feel
like a programmer. I was always programming
on the side, but I thought of programmers
and it was like boys from the computer
club. There was no one really...
Also, being a young
woman, there was not really any
role model or
idea like, hey, I'm actually a programmer too.
Absolutely.
We talked about how your linguistics
experience brought you into NLP
stuff which got you into programming, right?
I did a tiny bit
of
Pearl in university, but I'm not really
counting that. Everything we were
doing there, I kind of already knew
from,
I
don't know, just hanging around myself.
Sure.
Who else?
Who else wants to share?
I think everyone
majored in here. I was computer
technology. I took
an
engineering course in C, an engineering course in Fortran, but I wouldn't
call that a
computer science background. No. Interesting, but not a computer science background.
Gina? I
actually have, yeah, what is now a master's degree equivalent in computer science.
For me, I also grew up programming and figuring that that was the most amazing thing ever.
And then I learned that it was an actual job.
And that was when I knew what I wanted to become.
But to this day, I say I didn't learn much programming or anything like that at university.
I learned tolerance towards frustration and stress management.
But all of the programming stuff is actually mostly self-taught, I would say.
Because also,
I mean, yeah, we did some assembler stuff and some really weird old stuff at university.
Also some Java, which later became my main job before I went into the whole maintainer with Python situation.
But yeah, I think it's more been a case of lifelong self-teaching and trying to stay up with things that are happening and learning new languages here and there and such.
Yeah. It's not like engineering or something where it's kind of stable.
You know, bridges are still bridges.
Stuff is changing fast. You've got to stay on top of it.
That's really interesting.
What's
your background, actually?
Oh, Michael.
Sorry.
Yeah, well, I
am pretty close to where you are, Ines, as well.
I was in school for a long time. I love school.
But I studied math and chemistry, mostly math.
And I only did just enough programming to do the research projects I was on,
which was very, very little until the very end.
And then I'm like, you know what?
I kind of like this better.
What am I going to do to keep doing this?
Because it seems like the job opportunities are way better
and it's much more interesting.
So, yeah, I'm definitely on the self-taught train.
Yeah, that's me.
But it's really my father.
He was an electrical engineer and designed electronic cash registers.
So I started programming catch registers when I was eight.
The original point
of sale, amazing.
Yeah,
from the very beginning.
And then
when the
TRS-80 Model 1 shipped in 1977,
I was in the radio shack for the next year.
Because that was the only thing I was interested in.
A whole 4K of RAM.
Amazing.
Yeah.
So then my first part-time job after school was repairing TRS-80s
for a company called HNS Microsystems.
I've never done anything else.
So by
the time I graduated high school,
I did my last two years of high school living on my own,
making a living as a programmer.
So I didn't go to university.
I was too busy working.
Well, I think it paid off for you.
I think it turned out all right.
Yeah, it did okay.
It did okay.
I have the advantage of being first.
Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, that's amazing.
reading the specifications of the IBM BC before it was released and going,
640K of RAM, who's going to need that?
That's
way more than you're ever going to need.
All right, so what does Stack Overflow say?
It says that about 75% of the people have a bachelor's or a master's degree,
but only a little under, where is that number again, school,
A little under 50%, just under 50% of the people actually are using school to become software developers.
Then, you know, how we, so pretty much all of us here are in some way or other having to keep up with this technology and libraries and so on our own.
And so the next one asks, like, what online resources are you using?
So maybe we can go around real quick.
Where are you all spending your time?
I'll start first.
Probably YouTube for me with other blogs and other things thrown in.
But YouTube is a big portion where I learn new things and keep up with stuff.
I'm a reader.
It's the fastest mechanism for me.
I prefer to read my documentation at the pace that I can read it at
and then test stuff out.
You know, I like YouTube.
It's just too slow.
Yeah.
See,
I'm a slow reader.
It's funny you say that because I was also like,
my problem with YouTube is like there are so many people on YouTube
and they all speak really, they speak too slowly.
And yes, you
can like make it faster and it's the,
but yeah, I have a very similar feeling and it's,
yeah, it makes me happy to see also in the Stack Overflow stats
to see documentation be so significant
and also to hear it come up again
because I've always put so much work
into our documentation
and I've always been really passionate
about documentation
and sometimes I wonder,
hey, do people actually read this?
How much does it really matter?
And so it's nice to see that it seems to
matter.
What you don't see on this list is podcasts
because who would learn from a podcast?
Oh my gosh.
No, no, no, no, no.
No, no,
no, no, no.
There, auditory material at the bottom.
There you go.
8%.
But I used to not think YouTube was important.
I was also in the same boat of like, this is too slow.
Why are people spending this time?
I feel like that's my disconnected, my brain, recreational learning on YouTube.
But my real hardcore learning is probably more blogs.
Blogs and docs.
Yeah.
When I want to learn some new language or something, then I go with written things.
actually like books shocking i know but um uh but when it's like making skills like book finding or
whatnot then it's certainly youtube because then it helps to actually see people do that by hand
it doesn't help me watch someone else code it helps me to read the documentation and understand
how things fit together and click through some library things and such but uh yeah i don't
know this trend towards everything needs to be a youtube video that goes like 15 minutes and
10 of those are please sponsor me and
such is
something i
don't understand but maybe i'm
smashing the bell
and all that yeah i'm
surprised ai is so low on the list because that seems like
that pair programming i'm going to do it together while some ai explains something to me is
pretty effective like i've seen my kids use that and i wonder that's just a jingo right like
that
That was a year ago.
Yeah, it was a year ago.
You're right.
Those two, you know, the ChatGPT revolution starts in 23.
Like, it's not in a lot of time.
It feels like forever.
I'm now in the insider version of VS Code with that
build with Claude.
And like, wow, that thing's a really great tutorial tool.
But that's only been in the past couple of months.
Wow.
Yeah, time's flying.
I'm guessing AI here, they mean a chatbot type interface.
I know I keep complaining about this and it's maybe pedantic,
but AI already has this terminology problem.
And I feel like, why do you need to call it AI?
AI means so many things.
And
it's like half
of these things have AI in them.
And what do you mean?
Because I think it's actually, for so many things,
including how we think about open source software regulation and so on,
It's actually a huge issue that we do not distinguish between products like chatbot products and software components, for example, and call everything AI.
And I think ultimately the people that benefit from it most are tech companies.
So I feel like we should stop doing that.
So I'm a bit mildly, I mean, not in all, I'm mildly annoyed at Stack Overflow for just calling it AI.
Yeah, I can probably fix it.
Let me just right click inspect.
But in some ways
it's become the new agile, right?
It's like
it's a word so overloaded
and it doesn't mean anything anymore.
Yeah, yeah.
We're
using agile.
It just means we stop writing down the waterfall.
There you go.
Now, I know, Richard, you have an interesting take on a lot of the stuff.
Like things are AI until
they
work and they're proven.
Remember that AI is a marketing term for raising money, right?
Marvin Minsky coins it in the 1950s to get money out of the U.S. military, which, by the way, worked.
But inevitably, once a technology works, it gets a new name, right?
It becomes image recognition or large language models.
So as long as it's called AI, you know it doesn't work.
Still looking for its place in the world.
You'll get a new name.
All right. So out on the Stack Overflow survey, technical documentation is the number one. 84% of people say that they do that. Not surprisingly, number two is Stack Overflow, but it's a self-selecting group. So there's that.
Tutorials, blogs, how-to videos. I mean, I just want to thank you all. Thank you, everyone, for making me feel weird and being the only one who said YouTube here.
Sorry.
No, I'm just teasing.
Seriously, for me, when I'm trying to learn,
this mostly goes for frameworks.
Like if I want to learn UA framework or I don't know,
seeing it built up as somebody's like,
let me talk you through or show you how I'd build this sort of start to end.
That really sticks with me better than reading documentation.
And once I see that, then I'll go to the documentation
and AI and like, okay, help me click the pieces together.
Anyway, that's my world.
It's proof you have lots of screen space, right?
That you have your putting window open in one spot.
Then you get the YouTube video up in the top right.
And then you've got the doc down the bottom right.
No, I mean,
now that you
say it, like, you know, it is not actually,
it's some of it back, what I said earlier.
Also, we did some videos.
I did some YouTube end-to-end tutorials and they did quite well.
And I still have people to this day come up to me, ask me when I'm doing my next video,
say that they've really enjoyed them.
So there's clearly, there is an audience
for
it.
Which reminds
me, I should do another
YouTube video.
I
have the script ready.
I just, I'm really bad at
actually recording. And I have a plural size subscription
that comes with one of the
influencer packages. So I tend to go
there. So it's not like a don't consume
video. It's just
not YouTube.
Yeah, sure.
So during the pandemic, I had
a couple of sessions where I actually
just streamed myself while
working on Octoprint and explaining my thought process.
And that is something that I felt was helping those people a lot
who didn't have much development experience at all
and were just trying to understand.
So here's a problem.
How would someone who has done this before approach this problem,
reduce it into several parts and then approach every single part
and the thought cycles that are involved and so on.
For something like that, I think a video is great.
But if it's something like technology, like how do I program a command line thingy in Go, for example, that is not something where I would watch a YouTube video for, but rather look up code snippets and then try it on my own.
So maybe that's also a thing because you said you basically want to move through the process with the developer.
So maybe that is that kind of approach more where you are trying to wrap your head around
what is possible and how can I solve this specific problem versus going into a deep dive into
the API or something like that and just figuring out things that way.
Yeah, I think so.
For me, I like to kind of learn.
I want to sort of a surface layer experience of it.
Then I'll want to go a little deeper, then a little deeper instead of trying to like,
anyway.
Let's talk experience.
Now, I know everyone on this call, we're all pretty young,
but we probably have at least five years of experience doing this stuff.
No, I know.
We've been doing
it for a while.
It'll take.
Really quick.
Numbers of your programming, top to bottom, Ines, roughly?
Oh, depends.
How do you count?
Like really professionally and doing this job, it's like it's over 10 years.
I did, you know, start writing my first websites.
24 years ago.
But
that's
like, I don't know, I would never say like,
oh, I started programming when I was 11 and
that's how much experience I have.
Yeah, no, professionally.
Like
really in
this job and everything, like really doing what I do,
like a bit over 10 years.
Awesome.
First line of code.
Professionally.
Yeah, professionally would be 25-ish
years
ago.
in
general 35
fish
yeah
awesome
Richard
well yeah
I mean when do you get paid
right so I was being paid for code
in my
teens so 40 years
yeah amazing
27 years
for me
I was going to say 27 for me as well I think
jinx
I feel
for these people
in the one to four year like range this is a really i think it's a tough time for those folks
yeah but
also
there's a lot of people still joining the industry like the this what 25 to 30
percent constant ad going into the industry means we're always going to skew young effectively
or like early in in the um you know programming journey because you know i think actually speaking
of trends like what we see I think in especially in AI or in like you know out the machine learning
field like the most successful projects are those where people upskill and subject matter experts who
are like maybe experts in finance in some other area pick up the tools because you know it's never
been easier to learn programming and solve a problem and I think
there
we might have people
actually quite established in their career but only recently learned programming and I think
that's an interesting trend and i think with everything um and the way it's going in the
field i think we'll see a lot more of that
yeah but is this survey biased that we've got young
more younger folks may be replying than than older folks but what i made interesting
is this big jump
there from like we are starting at less than a year with 5.5 percent and then suddenly we spike up
to one to five years one to four years with 27.3 and then the curve ups down again until we are
at
I think the less than one year is because they don't find Stack Overflow.
Exactly.
That is what I'm taking from that.
If
you're in the one to four bracket, you are constantly on Stack Overflow.
And if
you are earlier
than that, then you haven't discovered this
source.
Certainly my experience
consulting into teams is the majority of the developers on a given team are under 10 years of experience.
And they have a senior that's over 10 years.
I would say as well.
And just to give you another perspective, so the people listening, the biggest category is one to four years, 27%, and then five to nine is another 25%, so over 50% in there.
But most importantly, it's the one to four years, I believe.
We need to keep that in mind.
Now, you could say Stack Overflow is skewing this because people are just hammering on Stack Overflow and trying to figure out what to do when they're brand new.
But the PSF JetBrains survey, which didn't have anything to do with code help site like Stack Overflow, I think 40% were less than three years.
40% of the people doing Python have been doing it less, three years or less.
And so it's – I think this is a more broad trend, which is something we've got to keep in mind when we're building libraries, building products, doing
tutorials
and so on.
is that a good chunk of your audience will be like,
everyone knows what a virtual environment is.
Everyone knows what
ASync is.
No, they don't.
I take back part of that feeling for those one to four year people
is that they also didn't get to experience Python 2.
They only know the view of Python 3.
Their will has not been crushed.
They have optimism in their life.
Much less the migration, right?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Or like
writing
Python 2 and 3 compatible code.
Oh,
no, no,
no.
Stop, stop.
You're bringing back the nightmares and the headache.
What were
you saying about
gray hair, Gina?
Yeah, Python 2
to 3.
At least half of that is from that.
Now on the JavaScript side,
now it's relatively hard to find folks
that experience Angular 1.1
and the chaos that was moving to 2, right?
That's now passed.
So, yeah,
in a
sense, new developers coming
in,
they get to benefit from the fact that they're getting into stabler tools
with robust solutions.
There's a lot less experimentation, depending on where you're going.
I mean, there's nobody with 10 years' experience with an LLM,
so everybody's a beginner there.
Yeah.
They'll still be able to experience some packaging grief somewhere
along the way.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Absolutely.
I mean, it depends on how long
you've been doing this.
The deployment sucks.
Yeah.
People call everything an LLM now, so in theory I can go around and claim I have 10 years experience in LLMs.
Relatively large language models.
Yeah, you probably all have heard the joke, but I imagine many listeners haven't, that Sebastian from FastAPI
put
out there.
He said, I just saw a job posting.
He created FastAPI, right?
And this is two years into it existing.
I just saw a job posting asking for four years of experience with FastAPI.
He's like, I created it.
I only have two years experience with
it.
I don't know
who this is for.
Hey, we all have 10 years of experience with AI.
Amazing.
All
right.
Well, hey, if you're a 10X developer, you get 10 years of experience per year.
I mean, come on.
All right.
Let's talk technologies.
And I don't know how you all feel about this sort of, like, what is the most popular?
We love programming language.
And
again,
focus on professional.
But I feel there's a lot of things that are not comparable.
And this one probably is the most you'll have, like,
SQL versus C++.
You're like, these
are the same.
Yeah, CSS
versus C++.
Like, not the same thing.
Anyway, that rant out of the way.
They qualified
their heading with putting in their markup languages.
Ah, okay.
Okay.
But Python and Java and C++ are in there.
C++ is a hardcore markup language.
Anyway.
So what was
the
original question?
It's just for making scripts.
The original question here,
let me just give people a quick bit of numbers.
JavaScript is number one,
which they put up as JS, 64%.
SQL is number two at 54.
HTML, CSS, which again are not the same thing,
but 52%. And then
Py, which I assume stands for Python
is 46, then TS
for TypeScript, but then longer words
like PowerShell are written out. I don't know why
some are abbreviated and some aren't. Nonetheless,
that's kind of what it is. And the question
is, which programming, scripting, and markup
language have you done extensive development work
over the past year?
So, obviously
this panel is fairly
skewed, but
just maybe
give me your perspective on
where you see energy going to these days in different languages.
For example, in Python, we've seen a lot of people move to Rust,
even though most people are still doing Python and so on.
Yeah, and most is a relative concept.
Rust is still at the edge of the long tail, so to speak.
Yeah, Rust is super, super low, actually.
It's like 2% or
something.
It's
a pretty specialized space to live.
Yeah, it's 11% for Stack Overflow.
but in the trends, I think it's...
Speaking
of trends,
one thing I would find interesting,
can you click on learning to code?
It would be interesting because they did separate it out.
It would be interesting to see
people who are learning.
What are
they learning, maybe?
I mean, they didn't ask specifically,
what are you learning, but extensive development.
And there we have Python at the top.
Yeah, quite a bit.
And HTML, okay, I get that.
HTML, CSS, like everyone's putting together stuff on the web.
You know, I don't know if everyone read the question correctly
and like really thought about extensive development.
Like maybe people thought, hi,
everyone's
hacking.
No, I'm sure most people who develop hack around with CSS,
with HTML a bit every
year.
Unaboidably.
Yeah.
So I'm not surprised.
If you gather all the web technologies together,
it's a webby world.
If you're making a web
app, like you have a lot of different languages
and map-up languages you're interacting with,
which you don't necessarily have in Python.
Python, you write Python.
Like maybe if you're a library developer, you do some C or Rust.
But that's
kind of it.
Whereas, okay, if you're a web developer, you do HTML, CSS, JavaScript,
TypeScript all
together.
You might do some database as well.
You might do that.
There's just this huge pile of technologies that come with a certain job, and we just mostly have one.
Yeah, but most Python people are writing a little SQL, too.
You've got to get your data from somewhere.
No,
but you can have someone else do that.
You can use an existing API.
I'm sure I would know.
I don't really write SQL to go through this.
And I think I would know a lot of, also I like to call it SQL, but that's a different story.
But I know a lot of developers, I'm sure, who don't write SQL.
I don't write SQL.
Might not even know it.
What SQL?
I was just kidding.
It's
called SQL.
I honestly, when I'm talking to databases, I use ORMs and ODMs most of the time.
I know,
Richard, you're a big database guy.
I've been everywhere
for one time or another.
So
it's
a friendly
language to me.
And apparently, according to the professional developer side,
lots of people are touching it.
Yeah, about a third, yeah.
Each respondent checked multiple boxes
because we
rarely
actually live in one language.
You usually have to go spend time elsewhere.
Do you read the
learning to code as,
like, that's aspirational?
They wish they were doing Python.
Yeah, interesting.
Did they ask that
question this year?
Because they used to ask that, right, in the developer survey.
Like what do you wish you were writing?
Yes,
that's in the most loved and most hated and most wanted.
I don't know if that's in here.
Actually,
let's go down to it.
I think they might have stopped as well.
Gosh, because
I love that.
There's an admired and desired section in 2.2.
Okay.
Let's
see.
Admired and desired.
Yeah, there it is.
Okay. This is pretty interesting. Yeah.
What do the bars mean here, folks?
Admired versus
desired, right?
Yeah.
So I admire Python, but I don't actually want to do it.
So
admired is read.
I think this is like a borderline contest.
I mean, no offense to Stack Overflow,
but that's like a borderline contestant for the data is ugly subreddit.
Because I find this quite hard to read.
It was just people who made this and I don't want to be.
It
went on green.
I agree.
Can someone decipher this for me?
Because I actually don't understand what I'm looking at.
Let me describe it
here.
So
there's a, if you go to the section, yeah, if you go to
the section,
there's two bars,
there's like kind of an error bar looking thing with two numbers and it has a
range on the blue one on the left is how desired is it?
And then there's a red one
that shows
how admired it is.
And you can see the delta, the gap between how much it's wanted versus how much people admire it.
So
Lust is probably the biggest.
Elixir makes the sense to me, right?
Because Elixir
is really
not easy
to work in.
But it's beautiful when it works.
So it
makes perfect
sense to me that almost nobody's doing it, but everybody thinks it's cool.
Yeah.
Seventy, seven percent think it's cool.
Five percent are doing it or actually want to do it.
that
resonates with me
I get that
that would make sense
so here we have Python
number one both in
absolutely number one
and desired
not number one in admired
which is
pretty interesting it's still quite high
up there but there are things like
Rust which is more admired
and Zig which is wild
and even Elixir as you point out there
but yeah I think this represents
trends pretty well
yeah when we talk
about admire
it's like who are the cool people that are
talking about this like how much
did this number move for Rust because
Racinovich was all over
it
yeah yeah and in Python we've got a bunch of
tools that have come along especially from the
astral folks but others
where we've seen
huge benefits because
people have written in Rust I don't know if that's
how much of that is we've just put better algorithms
into it and how much of it is actually Rust.
But it is Rust
and Rust. I think that puts a lot of shine
on it, but people are still rather just
write Python, but it seems impressive
or cool, and I think that kind of gets captured here.
Yeah.
Yeah, I think definitely sometimes people ask us
and if we were to rewrite
Spacey from scratch,
we might...
Maybe we still use Siphon, but
maybe we would have also used Rust. It totally wasn't
a thing back then, but I think
the alternatives
are just
C++ or Siphon, which isn't very extensively documented.
So I can see by Rust, it's nice and attractive.
Yeah, quite interesting.
I want to cover one more from this section,
and then we need to make sure that we save a little bit of time
for the AI category, because that's certainly going to be a thing.
And that is cloud platforms.
So one of the things I find really interesting is how much the big three hyperscale clouds,
AWS, Azure, and Google Cloud, to dominate where people are working, right?
I don't know how often developers make a decision in this space.
Yeah, you certainly have talked to a lot of larger companies that have really big cloud deployments.
Give us your thoughts, Richard.
Any
more than most developers choose what database you're using.
Somebody
else selected that product and pays for the licenses for it,
and you are
going to consume.
I
will say of the ones that are on this list,
I feel like AWS is the most developer-centric or friendly.
I would
consider Azure
being infrastructure ops-friendly
and AWS being like, oh, they're going to throw out a lot more developer-y type things.
We've had a lot of headaches.
I'm not an infrastructure person, but I just know we did have some headaches
with AWS and Google Cloud
is like what we ended up migrating to
because it's much more
developer friendly.
GCP is the most
developer friendly,
but the corp
doesn't necessarily like it
when you get further afield with it.
I think
what AWS
has been brilliant at
is how they manage their startup relationships.
Once you get to a certain size working with AWS,
a tech shows up to help you.
They've done a really good job
of cultivating support there,
plus they are the reference name.
Yeah, and also cultivating developers that specialize in it
because ultimately that's kind of how it works.
You have DevOps people,
and if you do manage significant infrastructure
on any of these cloud platforms,
you need a developer to do the maintenance on it.
That's also something we've realized
when we had to downscale some of our operations a bit.
The infrastructure is set up so that it needs people to maintain it
and so that it can do all of the things.
If the company encourages more people to specialize in its platform,
then you also have more companies hiring people to do it.
These numbers say
they don't add up to 100%.
It's like, listen, as soon as you get to a certain size of an organization,
you have more than one cloud in your life.
It's just
not optional.
Question.
Can we take a look at the split between professional developers
and learning to code, just out of
curiosity?
Yeah, I don't even
know what I was doing
over in that.
learning to code mix. That doesn't make any sense.
So that is what I would expect. Now
learning to code, please.
So just for people
listening, AWS
52%, Azure
30%, Google Cloud
25%.
On the pro developer side.
Oh, wow.
Ah, hard.
Yeah, Google Cloud
is number one at 24% learning code.
But the split is way more distributed
across all these
little areas, which is interesting.
AWS is 20.
And when you talk
about
dev
-friendly,
it's none of the big guys, right?
Like, first selling Firebase and
Cloudflare
and
DigitalOcean
even I would put up there.
Much more dev-centric.
I
also am a bit confused about, like,
what do they define as cloud here?
Because I would certainly put Amazon Web Services
and Azure and stuff into a completely different bucket
than a v-server hosted at Hezna or at OVH.
So that is a bit weird because, I mean,
I might be missing something,
but I think neither OVH nor Hezna
or something like that do have an offering similar
to AWS and such.
So that's a bit of a mixed bag.
Like Hetzner has basically, it
has cloud
servers,
it
has cloud firewalls, and it has a beta version of S3 storage,
and that's it.
Yeah, and you can also, you can
vertically scale and such.
They have an API for scaling.
Like I have all my stuff hosted there basically,
but it's definitely not the same thing as all of this orchestration stuff
that you can do with AWS agents and such,
or
even
Cloudflare.
So I
think that's a bit of a mixed thing.
It's clearly evidence
that they ask developers this question,
not the people actually.
Yeah, but what percentage
of the developers are using serverless-y things on Amazon
and not just putting up EC2 instances with their stuff in it?
Would that be interesting?
That would be super interesting.
Yeah.
Or who does web development?
Because, you know, we have platforms there that I also use,
like Vasell or Netlify, which is where we host our stuff,
which, you know, if you're learning to build a website,
that's the easiest way to just press play
and you have a website running,
but it might not be necessarily where you would even host
the machine learning model.
Although it's kind of, I think they're all trying to break
into that field as well, but, like, it's,
I think it's very use case specific.
Yeah.
There's a lot of ways to slice and dice this.
Yeah, I think there's
still developers coming up to terms with containers.
And so they're not even running containers in
any environment.
Yeah, like me.
Certainly in the Microsoft
world.
I mean, mentally coming to terms with.
The Microsoft world containers, because Windows containers are terrible,
Until you're at a place working in.NET where you're comfortable deploying onto a Linux instance, which, by the way, immediately saves you 20%, 25% on your cloud consumption, then containers work.
And now you need to learn all of that as well.
Although your AKS is your packaged container services make that a lot easier.
So
folks don't have
to learn it.
They just deploy into a service.
Yeah, certainly.
Open that space, a lot of people first have to learn Linux, and then they can learn Docker.
or even VMs, right?
It's a
big lift for a lot of folks that are just like,
I have a GUI for my web server.
Is there a container section on this survey?
Did people talk about that?
Let's see.
No.
It
falls into dockerism and
other tools.
It's another tool.
Yeah, okay.
I have all of my stuff running over at Hetzner
as well.
I'm a massive fan of Hetzner.
sad.
This is a year ago, but still.
Still.
Yeah.
I don't even know what.
I just can't.
It's so spread out
all over the
place.
I believe there's like
I don't know.
There's things like PIP
and NPM, but also Kubernetes.
Not
really sure they're the same.
Or a Visual Studio solution, which is the file format
for an application.
That's a
tool?
this is a grab bag of random words yeah it
is oh we're just gonna skip on all right we have just
a little bit of time to like for the finale here and i think i want to put the caveat out
here as we talk about the ai section that one there's a lot of hype it's all over the place
it can mean different things to different people also as we talked about the beginning this is a
year old and a year in ai years is probably like 10 years so
and i do worry about virtue signaling
here too just like this is almost asking to recycle right
yeah but
i know i break my glass
in
the backyard and just leave it there right yeah i did
grab the 2023 numbers because they
as well just to compare these two because i didn't follow the instructions on badly
behaved oh no
That's good.
So the key number there, that's 60%, and in 2023, it was 40%.
Okay, 50% growth.
I mean, admittedly, GitHub Copilot at that point was already three years old.
We tend to think from ChatGPT forward, but GitHub Copilot came first, the original Copilot.
Yeah, for sure.
And
it's been there,
it feels like.
I really want to focus on the sentiment and sort of how you all are using this as to kind of close this out.
However, or not using it, which is fine.
But I do want to just – there's a really interesting graph here.
If you look at the Stack Overflow language trends, which show how many questions appear on Stack Overflow for that technology,
Python has had this meteoric growth, almost hockey stick, not quite, but almost until 2023, really.
Like late, late 2022, right around
November.
Is this graph really just showing the demise of Stack Overflow?
Yes.
If you look
at this graph, there's a massive drop of Python there.
But there's also a massive drop of JavaScript and some others as
well, but certainly
the most popular ones.
And that is basically when ChatGPT came out.
And that is a really interesting developer trend on its own right there.
But I do think to put this into perspective,
also are new questions on Stack Overflow a good thing?
Like that's, I think that's another, you know, yes, it looks like, oh.
But
I
mean, yeah,
maybe the people
who would have otherwise opened a question
that was already answered like two years ago.
Yeah, they found their answer on ChatGPT and that's great.
We don't need the internet to be flooded with a lot of redundant information.
I know
to stack overflows.
You're hinting at the other aspect of it,
which is getting progressively harder to add questions to stack overflows.
Yeah.
I
think you're right, Ines.
I think people are just going elsewhere,
and that's kind of what I was thinking there.
The question
that graph just there,
was that questions asked for that thing or search terms for that?
thing
because it's
a huge
difference
over time based on
I think it's question asked yeah
or maybe answers as well but it's
not search terms
it's
content I believe on there
I just wanted
to make sure okay and
just in case
people are worried that maybe it's
it's crashing or something
you can look at the
the T
the T-O-B
T-O-B I can't
index. I can't type
and I know I spelled that but you know what? We're going to get that
fixed. There we go.
I don't know. I just
don't even. I mean if you look at Python
it's still year over year
up
6%.
Which
is not just faster
it's like 6
3 to 6 times fast. It is a blowout
level of growth.
It's all new depth.
People
coming in, using
a chat tool to learn programming
And it's really
good
at Python.
Like
if you want to navigate,
yeah, it's VS Code with the free copilot, teach me Python.
You're going to have a good experience.
Yeah.
All right.
With that out of the way, what's your whole sentiment personally for AI?
And maybe how do you see people adopting?
I love the 20% of the time.
No,
and I don't plan to.
I bet you they all skew older.
that's probably true
Ines
what do you mean by AI?
you live somewhat in the
you live in the ML space
you're kind of AI before AI
like legitimately
yeah I
guess
I don't know what
AI is
let's
say
LLM
yeah
let's say
LLM
but like LLMs
that generate text for a human to read
because
what
tools
What tools do you use as part of your development process, not as part of your API or for your app to run it, but what do you use to write code, basically?
Let's go with that.
Yeah.
So I don't actually, I don't use many models a lot to, like, actually help me write code because I think the stuff I do is, like, specialized and specific or often, you know, it's, like, very specific things in, like, the libraries we're building, for example.
But I do think to explain code to you or for workflows like infrastructure and stuff, that's where it's like really helpful.
Also, I know my co-founder, for example, he's also he's done a bunch of quite complex infrastructure stuff, like setting things up with Terraform.
And they're really having a model summarize and explain it to you.
That is very helpful.
Yeah, yeah. I've done things like, explain this Docker Compose file to me. What does this line mean? I don't understand this.
Does it mean
if it fails, it'll restart or if I should have done it restart? What does this do? And it really is quite good at that. Interesting. Yeah. So not so much. You're not vibing. Let's put you as the non-vibing.
Yeah,
yeah. But I found out that actually, because we've always, I think I might have mentioned this before in another context, but we've always put a lot of, in the libraries we write, a lot of work into all this backwards compatibility stuff, making sure we don't break users' code.
And this actually had a very positive side effect, which is that these models are really good at writing, for example, spaCy code.
And it's never something we planned. We were just like, oh, we just want to do all the boring stuff right and make our users happy.
But yeah, this really paid off.
Like I've heard these models, Copilot, ChatGPT,
are really good at writing code for our libraries.
And you
were
assuming
that's
a good documentation, right?
And we always put a lot of work into our documentation.
I think
that may have added to that as well.
Yeah.
Yeah, absolutely.
Gina, what do you think?
I know you're not a super--
No.
You're not an AI accelerist,
let's say.
Let's say I consider myself an AI skeptical.
So
the thing with
me is when Copilot came out as a GitHub star,
I had a very early access to it and then I started using it
and I allowed it to autocomplete a lot of my lines.
I found it an amazing help in translating my stuff
because I write everything in Octoprint in English first
and then the whole UI needs to be translated to German on every release.
And doing that by hand is a lot of work.
And having the I make suggestions is really nice in that case.
And then AI started to get shoved into my face from every place all around me.
And I read up on the energy consumption of that stuff and the water consumption of that stuff.
And that they were thinking about firing up additional power thingies again just for
that stuff.
And that was when I decided, okay, I'm not going to use this anymore.
I'm refusing to use this.
And I have disabled co-pilot and try to not touch anything AI if I can.
simply because I don't like how it is getting pushed into everyone's throat these days,
down
everyone's throat these days.
I actually do
have a free account on ChatGPT.
I sometimes have the problem that I forget words in English or in German
that I can still remember how to describe.
And then when I do not have anyone I can describe that to,
I can describe it to ChatGPT and then it tells me,
oh, you did mean, I don't know, interface or something like that.
And then I'm like, yay, exactly.
And I'm happy.
But other than that, I don't touch that with a 10-foot pole anymore
because simply it's just too much.
I don't like
hypes at all.
But what do you mean it's genitive models?
Yeah, sorry, sorry.
No, you are completely
right
because I get this little shock every time
that I am also into game development.
And now every time that I read or watch a video about how to build
some kind of AI for a game.
My initial reaction is always AI.
And then I realize, no, stop.
That's a good type.
That's the thing that makes the characters
and NPCs walk around and such
and pathfinding and whatever, right?
But yeah, I'm totally with you.
I just suffer from the same problem.
Yeah.
You're a very principled person.
I definitely admire that about you.
It's tough.
I do hate having AI jammed into everywhere.
my email client can rewrite stuff with the ai and it almost
never comes
out the way i want and when
i do all the formatting is lost
yes i
know and do you get comments like that where i'm like i know
exactly like why do you want to encourage people to write these shitty comments on posts that add
absolutely nothing and then
essentially spam and that you then need
another chat thingy to
parse again in order
to summarize
and for that, that's like completely
like, yeah,
why?
I know it. All right. Well, you don't have a
time left. I got to keep moving along here.
All right. Richard, where are you
on this?
Look,
you know, I'm talking to a lot
of PMs and things who are saying my team
is 25, 30% more productive
using these tools and they can
see just more check-ins of
more code
with fewer remediations.
what we saw in the first
like six months of the team using it is more
reverts because they were over committing
with the code they
didn't fully understand
but over time they got better
at it and when they did check
when they actually got to the PR and merge
the code stuck so
there was a lot of fewer problems
net to the point now
where it's like I kind of can't hire anybody
if they're not using these tools because it's like
they're not using an editor
the productivity level is substantial
if they're in the workflow.
And
I noticed going
further down the list of data here,
like the AI and the development workflow,
they're using it for writing code.
That's what it's doing.
It's code completion and it's, you know,
describe the problem and it gives you a first gen
and you can iterate a couple of times on it.
But this is also a year ago.
Like the ability
to write
PR explanations and things
was only just emerging when this survey was being done.
Today, I notice everybody's PR explanations are wildly better
because they didn't write
them the tool did.
Yeah, I've seen that.
And also maybe as
a bit of a positive outlook, like I do think we're already seeing that
it's possible to use local models and use much smaller models, you know, that you can
actually run on your laptop and with the device constraints that you have.
And it's like, it is a subset of things.
I think I was just reading something today
about also Visual Studio Code supporting more local models
and adding more features for that.
So I
think, because it's such a specific thing.
I feel like we're starting to right-size now.
That it's,
you know,
the initial iterations of these products,
we're throwing as much meat at them as possible
as they
weren't sure they were
going to work.
And now it's like, hey, too much is also a problem
because it goes off on weird wandering
and we've been able to narrow the models.
Companies can have their own internal fine-tuned models as well, like something really small.
Okay, that model just writes PR descriptions for our team that works in this field with Python.
And then it's small.
Everyone runs it locally.
It's data private.
You don't need to send your shit to
GitHub,
to Microsoft, to OpenAI.
It's like it all stays internal and you have control over it.
And I do think that would be a good compromise and,
you know, solve
a lot of the problems.
But, of course, it's something that there are a lot of companies out there, especially very large companies that do not like this kind of vision.
And, yeah, that's also why I'm so passionate about not calling everything AI, because ultimately, you know, it really just benefits big tech who, you know, likes having us call chat, us for chatbots and open source software into the same bucket and regulate it exactly the same way.
because
they'd be able to deal with it.
As you go
following
Gartner's pattern
into the trough of disillusionment,
you do end up with dumb regulations
to respond to social concerns
rather than thoughtful,
here
are the different problems
and how we can scope them more.
And lobbied by companies like, you know,
OpenAI, for example.
Yeah.
The incumbents want to lock in their
advantage.
Where's our regulatory capture,
please?
We need to work that in to the various places.
All right, Calvin.
Well, for folks who know me,
they probably know that I'm an eternal optimist
and I'm definitely very excited
about the AI developer tools.
I'm actually giving a talk on it
like next week at IndiePy about this
because there's so many good options out there.
Now that said,
I feel like these tools definitely benefit
the senior coders more than they do the junior coders.
Like I feel like this whole,
every time I hear the word vibe coding,
I shudder, kind of like Gina does, around anything that says AI.
So I think there's a great potential for a lot of tech to be produced very, very quickly with those kinds of tools.
And I feel like under poor guidance or poor mentorship, there's a lot of damage that could be done.
But the upside is so good.
kind of like Richard, like we're probably only going to hire somebody who is basically augmenting their personal skills with a set of tools behind them that make them perform at a higher level just in general.
There's so much upside to it.
And I do love the local tools.
Like I run Mistral Small and Llama 3.3, all that stuff locally.
And so nothing's going off my laptop to interoperate with a lot of my tooling.
There's so many good open source options, too.
I know a lot of people are excited about like quad code and,
and,
uh,
get copilot,
but the,
the Ater chats,
the,
the goose,
um,
uh,
clients,
those things are really incredible and they're open source.
They all run local.
They're there.
Another tech.
I want to jump on the terminology bandwagon.
They're agentic,
uh,
another terrible abused word.
Uh,
everyone's using,
but the tools like goose and Ater will run commands locally.
locally on your machine as a proxy to figure out things.
And I love that capability that is now doing an introspection, exploration, understanding.
It's really a great usage of the reasoning models.
And being able to use multiple models simultaneously against the code base is really, really powerful.
And I don't think a lot of developers see that.
I think a lot of people just jump into like a ChatGPT or a quad and try and just brute force their way to a solution.
And I don't think that's the right approach.
I would love to see more folks take a measured approach to this
and really make it small incremental improvements,
and you get a lot of win there.
Is that the topic of your talk?
Are you going to talk about that?
A bit.
I'm
going to take five of the current developer tools like that
and compare them.
I'm going to basically take a session.
Oh, that's cool.
You need to
send me the slides.
I
really want
to check it out because I recently just had a conversation
journalist who wanted to know about these things and brought down some of the thoughts and it was
it actually really mirrored um what you all have been saying
so um
yeah i want to look deeper into
this yeah
because some of them have superpowers that are different than the others and i
don't
think folks understand
that either like uh for example the goose no goose goose is very get
aware no i'm sorry take that back ader chat because even in my brain they don't say straight
Aider chat is very Git aware and it uses it as its undo function.
And it's very deeply, the prompting that they put into it understands Git really, really well,
which means it can quickly discern what's going on in a code base.
Because it basically does a mapping of your repository structure
and then uses that to know when to pull stuff in.
And again, I'm super positive and pro on this stuff.
And the fact that Aider can use local models,
mix them with anything else you want to pull in there, it's really flexible.
You're not tied to some AWS or Google or OpenAI or Anthropoc.
I'm also interested in this.
Are you going to be recording that talk or streaming?
Oh, yeah, yeah.
It'll be recorded and it'll be streamed.
We'll have it online.
Good.
So I
could go back to YouTube and watch it there like I do
not have to.
Or you all can
join and ask
great questions.
Awesome.
Okay.
Yeah, yeah.
No, it does sound super awesome.
IndiePy.org,
a little plug for, I'm a co-organizer, co-founder of IndiePy, the local Python group here too.
In Indianapolis?
in
Indiana.
Yep.
I would say,
well,
for me,
I've,
I've definitely gone on a journey through all of this stuff.
When I first saw it,
I,
I still,
to this day,
feel like LM's probably border on copyright theft.
So I'm,
I'm a little,
I'm a little displeased with them.
Well,
maybe a lot displeased,
but what are you going to,
at the same time,
that horse is out of the barn.
It's not coming home.
It's gone.
Right.
And so then you got to say,
Well, now what are we going to do?
Am I going to just pretend this doesn't exist
because I'm a little bit put off by that?
When everyone else is using it to create libraries, tools, applications, content, et cetera,
that's not that reasonable either, right?
To Richard's comment about the productivity, right?
You've got to be practical.
I would also found them to be fairly
mind-blowingly cool
but somewhat inaccurate
but that's kind of like a 2023-2024 version
now if
you get to the higher level models
they are so good
they are so powerful and so effective
that it's
if you stopped messing with them a year ago
because you don't want to
because they're not really that accurate
I would encourage people to look at it again
and maybe look at Calvin's talk.
And then Gina, for your concerns, I also share those,
although I definitely have a ChatGPT subscription these days.
Check out stuff like LM Studio and other ways
of running it local.
You can avoid a lot of the melting the power grid.
I mean, then I'm paying for the energy cost.
That's also a problem.
Yeah, but
it's
not that.
You can
run
lower models that take
not that much time.
I mean, most of the energy costs
is training.
It's so efficient, I mean, efficient
relatively to everything else out there.
It's so efficient.
And we haven't gotten to optimized yet.
No, yeah, you're right.
It's still
in its infancy.
Yeah, this is, in five years
it's going to be, the local models
especially I think are going to be really much more
capable.
We saw DeepSeq already.
And this is driving innovation
around abundance.
I think we're going to have
new solutions to these energy problems, new solutions to the cooling problems.
Like we can't continue, obviously, down this route.
I do share Gina's concern, but again, I think I come at it with a very optimistic,
maybe overly optimistic view.
Maybe I wish I was a little more
realistic about
it.
I think Gina is right that there is a problem that has to be addressed.
Yeah, but also we
are coming out of this hype.
Yeah.
I don't know what the Gartner cycle is calling it again,
but I call it the post-type hangover sort of in that phase.
And
I think
then there's going to be a more reasonable mindset.
I've always been advocating for smaller models,
more task-specific models,
using these large generative models to create systems
rather than as systems.
Using them as systems, that's kind of 2023.
What we're doing now is using them
to help
us write code, but also using them to create data for smaller models, which is probably possible.
And that's not old NLP.
That's just, yeah, next level.
Maybe to not only say something negative about that, also maybe something positive on my side about that stuff.
So I find it very interesting.
And I think there are some great tools or going to be some great tools.
They're utilizing this technology.
And only if the person using it is actually able to determine whether that stuff it is outputting is actually good.
Yeah.
Only if it is, it doesn't necessarily have to run locally, at least not for me, because I am developing open source anyhow.
So everything I do is going to be out in the open anyhow.
But yeah, some privacy aspects are also something that are to be considered.
So local would be nice.
Lower energy costs.
And please allow me to disable this stuff when I don't want to use it.
Because I don't want to have every single tool start waving at me all the time going,
hey, by the way, you can also now use my chatbot interface when I'm like, no, I'm just happy
if you list my files here, dear file listener.
If I list that, something like that.
You know, the other day I was looking for a new terminal and found stuff that was also trying to tell me that it has AI in it, whatever they meant with that.
But I don't need a chatbot interface when I'm trying to write bash.
So thank you very much.
So
give me an off switch.
Allow me to run this stuff locally.
And, yeah, don't shove it down my throat.
And also don't try to plaster it all over the place as the solution for every single problem, especially for people who don't fully understand the problem space yet.
Because then we also get like in the open source situation, we also get a lot of issues now generated with
AI,
security
tickets
generated by AI, like suggestions from people to help other people generated by AI that are completely wrong and are causing more problems than anything.
So if all of this stuff stops, then yes, then I will take another look.
But until then, I'm just fed up up to here with that.
And I can't
stand it anymore.
No, I agree.
I mean, and I work very closely in the space.
And I absolutely agree with your points.
Yeah.
All right, everyone.
I think we're just getting started.
We could go for a very long time,
but we also are out of time.
Ines, Gina, Richard, Calvin
thank you all for being here
it's been a lot of fun
thank you
bye all